# 2.3 Player

#### Stats

The **stats** menu allows you to change Mario's stats, such as your hp, fp, level, etc. Note that for action commands, having the Lucky Star in your inventory does nothing. Simply marking the Lucky Star icon is sufficient.

#### Gear

The **gear** menu allows you to choose which boots and hammer Mario has.

#### Partners

The **partners** menu allows you to control your active partner, which partners are in your party, and the rank of each partner. Each partner's rank is denoted by the number of blue circles next to their icon.

_Warning_: Although Goompa and Goombaria are in the game as available partners, their behavior is very buggy since they were never obtainable in the final game.

#### Badges

The **badges** menu lets you select which badges are in your inventory. Pressing the `full list` button gives you a menu that allows you to add anything from the full item list, including unused badges.

#### Items

The **items** menu lets you edit your **regular items**, **stored items**, and **key items** inventories with the respective menus. To remove an item from a specific slot, select the slot and press the delete button.

_Warning_: The game makes no distinction between normal items, key items, badges, or icons. If anything is placed in a menu it can't normally go, it can cause buggy behavior.

#### Star Spirits

The **star spirits** menu allows you to select how many Star Spirits have been saved and in turn, the maximum size of your star power meter. The beam upgrades are selected by cycling through the last item in the menu.

_Warning_: The beam is not acquired in the base game until all 7 Star Spirits have been saved. Selecting either Star or Peach Beam with fewer than 7 Star Spirits can cause buggy behavior.

#### Misc

The **misc** menu contains menus for less-used options:

* **princess peach**: allows you to control whether you're controlling Peach instead of Mario, if Peach is transformed into a disguise, whether she can use the Sneaky Parasol, and what enemy her disguise is of.
* **merlee**: allows you to set what Merlee's next spell will be, how many more times she can cast a spell, and how many more battle turns are left until she casts her next spell.

_Warning_: Swapping to Peach or Mario in locations they can't typically get to can cause buggy behavior.
